# Text Paraphraser using Pegasus

This NLP project utilizes Google's Pegasus model for text paraphrasing using the Hugging Face Transformers library in Python. Pegasus stands for Pre-training with Extracted Gap-sentences for Abstractive Summarization Sequence-to-sequence models, known for its effectiveness in generating high-quality paraphrases.


## Overview

This project showcases how to implement the Pegasus model for paraphrasing text using a web interface built with Flask. Users can input text through the web interface and receive multiple paraphrased outputs generated by the Pegasus model.

## Installation

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.6 or higher
- Flask
- Pytorch
- Huggingface
- Pegasus

### Steps
1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/MAhad01/paraphraser_pegasus.git
   cd paraphraser_pegasus
   ```

2. Install the required packages:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. Ensure that the Pegasus model and tokenizer are downloaded and placed in the `model` and `tokenizer` directories, respectively.

## Usage

### Running the Web Application

1. Start the Flask app:
   ```bash
   python app.py
   ```

2. Open your browser and navigate to `http://127.0.0.1:5000/` to access the web interface.

3. Input the text you want to paraphrase, specify the number of paraphrases, and click "Submit" to view the generated results.

### Jupyter Notebook

The repository includes a Jupyter Notebook that illustrates the use of Pegasus for paraphrasing directly in Python.

1. Launch the notebook server:
   ```bash
   jupyter notebook
   ```

2. Open the `Paraphrase_Mining_Transformers_Python___Google_pegasus_paraphrase_LLM_Model.ipynb` file and follow the step-by-step instructions provided.

## Files

- `app.py`: A Flask application providing a web interface for text paraphrasing.
- `Paraphrase_Mining_Transformers_Python___Google_pegasus_paraphrase_LLM_Model.ipynb`: A Jupyter Notebook demonstrating how to use the Pegasus model for paraphrasing.
- `templates/index.html`: The HTML template for the web interface.
- `requirements.txt`: A list of required Python packages.

## Acknowledgements

- [Hugging Face Transformers](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers): A library for state-of-the-art NLP models.
- [Google Research](https://research.google/): Developers of the Pegasus model.

This project highlights the powerful text paraphrasing capabilities of the Pegasus model, with special thanks to the Hugging Face community for making these models accessible and easy to use.

